CONCORD, N.H. — Jeb Bush rolled across this state last week in a bus, chomping on turkey jerky and ducking into diners, general stores and town halls to plead his case to voters.
Chris Christie, the governor of New Jersey, was not far behind, mingling with beer-sipping students at a pub near Dartmouth College and chatting with a 3-year-old in the State Capitol about what he wanted for Christmas. And Gov. John Kasich of Ohio swung a golf club at a driving range in Portsmouth after fielding questions from Rotary Club members on topics ranging from climate change to whether deceased people are somehow casting ballots in some states.
“You don’t win here, in my opinion, by just running television ads,” Mr. Kasich said in an interview before meeting with editors at The Portsmouth Herald. “You’ve got to be here, you’ve got to be on the ground. People want to see you. And they want to know who you are.”
All three men are staking their Republican candidacies on an idea that seems increasingly quaint: that campaigning one on one in this small state can set you on the path to becoming president.
It is a notion that is facing a rigorous test this election cycle, as the large Republican field, social media and televised debates that attract massive audiences have reshaped the race like never before.
With just three months remaining before the first votes are cast, two candidates who have spent little time here, Donald J. Trump and Ben Carson, are leading in most national and New Hampshire Republican polls. And Senator Marco Rubio of Florida is gaining, in large part because of his debate performance last month. Mr. Bush, Mr. Christie and Mr. Kasich, who are languishing in the same surveys, are trying to climb their way back by winning over voters in small towns, schools and senior centers in New Hampshire, a state each of them has cast as crucial to his candidacy.
The outcome here will echo beyond this election and reveal much about how the country chooses presidents, and whether the 64-year-old tradition of direct voting in the first-in-the-nation primary matters anymore. Its possible diminishment is already unsettling residents, who view their role of scrutinizing and winnowing the field of candidates as a solemn duty.
