Dozens of black football players at the University of Missouri have joined demonstrations over the university’s handling of racial tensions on campus by vowing to boycott team activities until the president of the university system resigns.
Frustrations at the university have been rising after recent incidents in which racial slurs were directed at black students, and one in which someone used feces to draw a swastika on a residence hall wall. Students protesting over the weekend accused officials of failing to respond to acts of racism and intolerance, and called for the president, Timothy M. Wolfe, to step down or to be removed.
The Legion of Black Collegians, the black student government, posted a photograph to Twitter on Saturday night of more than 30 football players linked in arms with a graduate student who is staging a hunger strike.
“The athletes of color on the University of Missouri football team truly believe ‘injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere,’” a message accompanying the photo said, quoting a line from the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. that has become a refrain of recent protest movements.
Mr. Wolfe said in a statement on Sunday that his administration was working to address the students’ concerns and promised to share the next steps as soon as they were confirmed.
“My administration has been meeting around the clock and has been doing a tremendous amount of reflection on how to address these complex matters,” he said. “Clearly, we are open to listening to all sides, and are confident that we can come together to improve the student experience on our campuses. We want to find the best way to get everyone around the table and create the safe space for a meaningful conversation that promotes change.”
The incident at Missouri comes at a time of escalating racial tensions at college campuses across the United States. Last month the president of the University of Louisville in Kentucky apologized to students after he and a dozen friends were pictured wearing ponchos, sombreros and bushy mustaches as part of a Mexican-themed Halloween costume that critics called offensive to Latinos.
